---
title: Summary of the poem collection
---

Tursun’s collection was published by Zhejiang Literature and Art Publishing House in 2023. Through the poem, Zholymbet situates her thoughts in a larger context of relation with a nomadic life, pastoral nature, collective ethnic memory, and womanhood. In _黑山上走来迁徙的队伍_ _(The Caravan Crossing the Black Mountain)_, the poem recalls the historical migrations of Kazakhs and transforms the collective memory into epic perseverance. By connecting the challenging experience of migration and renewal, Zholymbet constructs a bridge between generations: from her ancestors’ migration roots across mountains to her own witness of urban modernity in Beijing. In her poem, she witnesses migration from hardship to dignity, from horse to automobile, from survival to knowledge. Her poem also focused on nature, like mountains, and the changing ecological environment of pastureland. Like _我出生的大山_ _(The Mountain Where I Was Born),_ _恼火_ _(Anger), and_ _山（一）（二）_ _(The Mountain I, II)_, show Zholymbet’s changing relationship with nature and place. Her nostalgia merges with her revisits to the homeland, and she witnesses the transformed homeland, modern industry, and electric light where she once herded sheep. She recognizes progress and laments the loss. Especially, she challenges the romanticization of mountains, as _“Anger” (1975)_ expresses her ecological anxiety. She laments environmental destruction, deforestation, mining, and drying rivers, and condemns herself for not protecting the steppe. Since she experienced early socialist transformation, her narrative is also founded on a collective stance, expressing her beliefs on the solidarity of people and womenhood. Especially, in her poem_这就是我们_ _(This Is Us)_, Tursun connects herself and her sisters _as “the daughters of Bogda Mountain”_ and _“flowers of this era,”_ as a manifesto for women’s solidarity, education, and virtue within a changing socialist world. Through her own experience as a journalist, she emphasizes the mission of witnessing and recording through her poem _记者_ _(Journalist)_ and _我是记者_ _(I Am a Journalist)_.




